So I added my API key, let me now fetch the input the user entered and for that, we'll actually have different
ways.
Let's start by simply using the good old query selector and what we could do here in onFetchStockPrice
,
we could try using this query selector.
The problem is I already get an error here by Typescript because this refers to my class and this class
doesn't have a query selector method,
we can't access this in the same way we could access it in our own component when we used vanilla Javascript
because whilst this component, this class here gets transformed to a real native web component behind the
scenes by stencil, when we write it,
it isn't one yet, it's a normal Javascript class instead and therefore, this query selector is just not
available here.
So we somehow need to get access to our element, to the underlying element, to our host element so to
say
and in CSS, we can do so with :host,
how do we now get access to our host element,
so the component itself, to the web component itself from inside our Typescript class? There is a special decorator
which we should use, the @element decorator which also needs to be imported from @stencil/core and
you add this in front of a property which will then hold a reference to your web component.
I'll name this el and this is a convention you see quite a lot but you can name this however you want and
this will be of type HTML element because this will be your web component that stencil creates for
you, so to say.
And there, you have all the methods available you have available on any HTML element because it is
of type HTML element.
So even though it's undefined initially here, stencil will assign a value to this property and it will
be a reference to our web component. Now
therefore here after we prevented the default,
we can simply access this.el and then query selector
and here we can now simply get access to our input.
This input has the ID stock symbol, so I will use that ID selector here,
#stock-symbol and this now will be an input, so we can extract the value from there.
However if I try to access value like this, Typescript does not like this because Typescript does not
know that query selector yields us a HTML input element.
It of course can't know which element we're selecting and therefore, it assumes a general HTML element
and most HTML elements have no value field and therefore Typescript gives us an error here, even though we
know this code would work. We can simply tell Typescript that we know that this will fetch a HTML input
element by wrapping this.el query selector in parentheses and adding as HTML
input element here
and this simply tells Typescript hey what we get here will be an HTML input element.
Now we can safely access the value without Typescript complaining
and we can store this in a constant, so stockSymbol for example. Now we can use this constant in our
HTTP request as well, here where MSFT is hardcoded,
I'll also inject that dynamic value and I'll add the stock symbol the user entered. And now with that, we can
save that and go back
and if I now enter fetch, we'll get an error and that error has nothing to do with the fact that I didn't
enter a value but with how I tried to query for my stock symbol input. I use query selector on the element
but remember that on this element, we use the shadow DOM
and how did we get access to the elements in the shadow DOM in our vanilla component?
Well there, we always called this shadow root query selector and
we need to do the same here. On our element, we first of all need to access the shadow root and then
we can call the query selector on that but only use shadow root here
if you are using the shadow DOM, if you're not using that,
you don't need that.
Now with that, if I reload and I click fetch again,
well now I just get an error here that we can't read property price of undefined which makes sense because
I try to fetch data for some stock that doesn't exist
and indeed if we check the network tab in the developer tools, clear that and I send another request
without entering a value,
we see that here.
We actually get a 200 response code, that is just how this API works
but in the response, we just have this error message key which holds an error message showing us that
we somehow have an invalid API call.
So not the most useful error message here from the API unfortunately but it is what it is.
We'll just have to check for this at a later point of time to avoid invalid inputs
but before we do that, let's simply try this with a valid input,
AAPL for example will fetch the Apple stock price and this indeed doesn't look too bad.